aspnetcore/blazor/includes/prerendering.md, before:

---
no-loc: [Kestrel, appsettings.json, "ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
---
*This section applies to Blazor Server and hosted Blazor WebAssembly apps that prerender Razor components.*

While an app is prerendering, certain actions, such as calling into JavaScript, aren't possible. Components may need to render differently when prerendered.

To delay JavaScript interop calls until a point where such calls are guaranteed to work, override the [`OnAfterRender{Async}` lifecycle event](xref:blazor/components/lifecycle#after-component-render-onafterrenderasync). This event is only called after the app is fully rendered.

`Pages/PrerenderedInterop1.razor`:

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-razor[](~/blazor/common/samples/5.x/BlazorSample_WebAssembly/Pages/prerendering/PrerenderedInterop1.razor)]

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="< aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-razor[](~/blazor/common/samples/3.x/BlazorSample_WebAssembly/Pages/prerendering/PrerenderedInterop1.razor)]

::: moniker-end

For the preceding example code, provide a `setElementText1` JavaScript function inside the `<head>` element of `wwwroot/index.html` (Blazor WebAssembly) or `Pages/_Host.cshtml` (Blazor Server). The function is called with <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.JSRuntimeExtensions.InvokeVoidAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and doesn't return a value:

```html
<script>
  window.setElementText1 = (element, text) => element.innerText = text;
</script>
```

> [!WARNING]
> **The preceding example modifies the Document Object Model (DOM) directly for demonstration purposes only.** Directly modifying the DOM with JavaScript isn't recommended in most scenarios because JavaScript can interfere with Blazor's change tracking.

> [!NOTE]
> The preceding example pollutes the client with global methods. For a better approach in production apps, see [Blazor JavaScript isolation and object references](xref:blazor/call-javascript-from-dotnet#blazor-javascript-isolation-and-object-references).
>
> Example:
>
> ```javascript
> export setElementText1 = (element, text) => element.innerText = text;
> ```

The following component demonstrates how to use JavaScript interop as part of a component's initialization logic in a way that's compatible with prerendering. The component shows that it's possible to trigger a rendering update from inside <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.ComponentBase.OnAfterRenderAsync%2A>. The developer must be careful to avoid creating an infinite loop in this scenario.

Where <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.JSRuntime.InvokeAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> is called, `ElementRef` is only used in <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.ComponentBase.OnAfterRenderAsync%2A> and not in any earlier lifecycle method because there's no JavaScript element until after the component is rendered.

[`StateHasChanged`](xref:blazor/components/lifecycle#state-changes-statehaschanged) is called to rerender the component with the new state obtained from the JavaScript interop call (for more information, see <xref:blazor/components/rendering>). The code doesn't create an infinite loop because `StateHasChanged` is only called when `infoFromJs` is `null`.

`Pages/PrerenderedInterop2.razor`:

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-razor[](~/blazor/common/samples/5.x/BlazorSample_WebAssembly/Pages/prerendering/PrerenderedInterop2.razor)]

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="< aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-razor[](~/blazor/common/samples/3.x/BlazorSample_WebAssembly/Pages/prerendering/PrerenderedInterop2.razor)]

::: moniker-end

For the preceding example code, provide a `setElementText2` JavaScript function inside the `<head>` element of `wwwroot/index.html` (Blazor WebAssembly) or `Pages/_Host.cshtml` (Blazor Server). The function is called with<xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.IJSRuntime.InvokeAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and returns a value:

```html
<script>
  window.setElementText2 = (element, text) => {
    element.innerText = text;
    return text;
  };
</script>
```

> [!WARNING]
> **The preceding example modifies the Document Object Model (DOM) directly for demonstration purposes only.** Directly modifying the DOM with JavaScript isn't recommended in most scenarios because JavaScript can interfere with Blazor's change tracking.

> [!NOTE]
> The preceding example pollutes the client with global methods. For a better approach in production apps, see [Blazor JavaScript isolation and object references](xref:blazor/call-javascript-from-dotnet#blazor-javascript-isolation-and-object-references).
>
> Example:
>
> ```javascript
> export setElementText2 = (element, text) => {
>   element.innerText = text;
>   return text;
> };
> ```

Commit message:

Blazor Call JS from .NET UE pass
Updates

aspnetcore/blazor/includes/prerendering.md, after:

---
no-loc: [Kestrel, appsettings.json, "ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
---
*This section applies to Blazor Server and hosted Blazor WebAssembly apps that prerender Razor components.*

While an app is prerendering, certain actions, such as calling into JavaScript, aren't possible. Components may need to render differently when prerendered.

To delay JavaScript interop calls until a point where such calls are guaranteed to work, override the [`OnAfterRender{Async}` lifecycle event](xref:blazor/components/lifecycle#after-component-render-onafterrenderasync). This event is only called after the app is fully rendered.

`Pages/PrerenderedInterop1.razor`:

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-razor[](~/blazor/common/samples/5.x/BlazorSample_WebAssembly/Pages/prerendering/PrerenderedInterop1.razor)]

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="< aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-razor[](~/blazor/common/samples/3.x/BlazorSample_WebAssembly/Pages/prerendering/PrerenderedInterop1.razor)]

::: moniker-end

For the preceding example code, provide a `setElementText1` JavaScript function inside the `<head>` element of `wwwroot/index.html` (Blazor WebAssembly) or `Pages/_Host.cshtml` (Blazor Server). The function is called with <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.JSRuntimeExtensions.InvokeVoidAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and doesn't return a value:

```html
<script>
  window.setElementText1 = (element, text) => element.innerText = text;
</script>
```

> [!WARNING]
> **The preceding example modifies the Document Object Model (DOM) directly for demonstration purposes only.** Directly modifying the DOM with JavaScript isn't recommended in most scenarios because JavaScript can interfere with Blazor's change tracking.

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-5.0"

> [!NOTE]
> The preceding example pollutes the client with global methods. For a better approach in production apps, see [JavaScript isolation in JavaScript modules](xref:blazor/call-javascript-from-dotnet#javascript-isolation-in-javascript-modules).
>
> Example:
>
> ```javascript
> export setElementText1 = (element, text) => element.innerText = text;
> ```

::: moniker-end

The following component demonstrates how to use JavaScript interop as part of a component's initialization logic in a way that's compatible with prerendering. The component shows that it's possible to trigger a rendering update from inside <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.ComponentBase.OnAfterRenderAsync%2A>. The developer must be careful to avoid creating an infinite loop in this scenario.

Where <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.JSRuntime.InvokeAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> is called, `ElementRef` is only used in <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.ComponentBase.OnAfterRenderAsync%2A> and not in any earlier lifecycle method because there's no JavaScript element until after the component is rendered.

[`StateHasChanged`](xref:blazor/components/lifecycle#state-changes-statehaschanged) is called to rerender the component with the new state obtained from the JavaScript interop call (for more information, see <xref:blazor/components/rendering>). The code doesn't create an infinite loop because `StateHasChanged` is only called when `infoFromJs` is `null`.

`Pages/PrerenderedInterop2.razor`:

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-razor[](~/blazor/common/samples/5.x/BlazorSample_WebAssembly/Pages/prerendering/PrerenderedInterop2.razor)]

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="< aspnetcore-5.0"

[!code-razor[](~/blazor/common/samples/3.x/BlazorSample_WebAssembly/Pages/prerendering/PrerenderedInterop2.razor)]

::: moniker-end

For the preceding example code, provide a `setElementText2` JavaScript function inside the `<head>` element of `wwwroot/index.html` (Blazor WebAssembly) or `Pages/_Host.cshtml` (Blazor Server). The function is called with<xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.IJSRuntime.InvokeAsync%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and returns a value:

```html
<script>
  window.setElementText2 = (element, text) => {
    element.innerText = text;
    return text;
  };
</script>
```

> [!WARNING]
> **The preceding example modifies the Document Object Model (DOM) directly for demonstration purposes only.** Directly modifying the DOM with JavaScript isn't recommended in most scenarios because JavaScript can interfere with Blazor's change tracking.

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-5.0"

> [!NOTE]
> The preceding example pollutes the client with global methods. For a better approach in production apps, see [JavaScript isolation in JavaScript modules](xref:blazor/call-javascript-from-dotnet#javascript-isolation-in-javascript-modules).
>
> Example:
>
> ```javascript
> export setElementText2 = (element, text) => {
>   element.innerText = text;
>   return text;
> };
> ```

::: moniker-end
